h1. SVGeocoder

SVGeocoder fills the lack of a forward geocoding class on iOS, and is an improved alternative to Apple's unreliable @MKReverseGeocoder@. It uses "JSONKit":https://github.com/johnezang/JSONKit as well as the "Google Geocoding API":http://code.google.com/apis/maps/documentation/geocoding/ as its data provider so make sure you read their "Terms of Service":http://code.google.com/apis/maps/terms.html#section_10_12 before using SVGeocoder. 

h2. Installation

__Checkout the "iOS 5 branch":https://github.com/samvermette/SVGeocoder/tree/iOS5 for ARC and NSJSONSerializer use (thanks "aufflick":https://github.com/aufflick)__

* Drag the @SVGeocoder/SVGeocoder@ folder into your project. 
* Add the *CoreLocation*, *MapKit* and *AddressBook* frameworks to your project.

h2. Usage

h3. Geocoding addresses

<pre>
NSString *addressString = @"3245 St-Denis, Montreal"
SVGeocoder *geocodeRequest = [[SVGeocoder alloc] initWithAddress:addressString];
[geocodeRequest setDelegate:self];
[geocodeRequest startAsynchronous];
</pre>

Additionally, you can use Google Geocoding API's @region@ and @bounds@ parameters to fine-tune your search:

<pre>
- (SVGeocoder*)initWithAddress:(NSString *)address inBounds:(MKCoordinateRegion)bounds;
- (SVGeocoder*)initWithAddress:(NSString *)address inRegion:(NSString *)regionString;
</pre>

h3. Reverse geocoding coordinates:

<pre>
CLLocationCoordinate2D coordinate = CLLocationCoordinate2DMake(45.54181, -73.62928);
SVGeocoder *rGeocoderRequest = [[SVGeocoder alloc] initWithCoordinate:coordinate];
[rGeocoderRequest setDelegate:self];
[rGeocoderRequest startAsynchronous];
</pre>

h3. Adopting the SVGeocoderDelegate protocol

On success, SVGeocoder will return an @SVPlacemark@ object:

<pre>
- (void)geocoder:(SVGeocoder *)geocoder didFindPlacemark:(SVPlacemark *)placemark;
</pre>

Or an array of @SVPlacemark@ objects (if you want multiple results or pick the most relevant placemark yourself):

<pre>
- (void)geocoder:(SVGeocoder *)geocoder didFindPlacemarks:(NSArray *)placemarks;
</pre>

SVGeocoder will return an error if Google didn't return any placemark of if there is no connectivity:

<pre>
- (void)geocoder:(SVGeocoder *)geocoder didFailWithError:(NSError *)error;
</pre>

h3. Cancelling requests

Make sure you cancel requests for which the user isn't waiting on anymore:

<pre>
SVGeocoder *geocodeRequest = [[SVGeocoder alloc] initWithAddress:@"3245 St-Denis, Montreal"];
[geocodeRequest setDelegate:self];
[geocodeRequest startAsynchronous];

// user exits view, no longer needs geocoding results

[geocodeRequest cancel];
[geocodeRequest release];
</pre>

h2. About the SVPlacemark object

SVPlacemark is basically an "MKPlacemark":http://developer.apple.com/library/ios/#documentation/MapKit/Reference/MKPlacemark_Class/Reference/Reference.html subclass but with a @coordinate@ property. Here's what an SVPlacemark object looks like:

<pre>
{
	address = {
		Country = Canada;
		CountryCode = CA;
		State = Quebec;
		Street = "3456 Rue Denis";
		ZIP = "J0K 1S0";
	},
	coordinate = {
		latitude = "46.01529";
		longitude = "-73.76997";
	},
	formattedAddress = "3456 Rue Saint-Denis, Montreal, QC H2L 4S9, Canada"
}
</pre>

h2. Credits

SVGeocoder is brought to you by "Sam Vermette":http://samvermette.com and "contributors to the project":https://github.com/samvermette/SVGeocoder/contributors. If you have feature suggestions or bug reports, feel free to help out by sending pull requests or by "creating new issues":https://github.com/samvermette/SVGeocoder/issues/new. If you're using SVGeocoder in your project, attribution would be nice.